Tonkotsu Soup
INGREDIENTS
● 1.5kg pork marrow bones
● 500g chicken frame
● 50g pork fat mince
● ½ leek
● 1 garlic clove
● 1 shallot
Serves: 8 Prep Time: 10 min Cooking Time: 6 hours
METHOD
1. Place the bones and chicken frame in a bowl, and run cold water over it in a sink
for 10 minutes to remove the excess of blood and any other impurities.
2. In a large stockpot, place all the ingredients, and cover with cold water.
3. Bring to a boil.
4. Add vegetables in, and skim.
5. Cook on a rolling boil to emulsify fats, for a minimum of 8 hours. You should
have a thick, rich, and creamy Tonkotsu broth.
To assemble the Ramen
1. In a large bowl, pour 30g of Tare, and Umami Oil.
2. Add 130g of cooked Ramen noodles, and 300-400 mls of Tonkotsu soup.
3. Add the other ingredients to your liking (Cha-Shu, Nitamago and Menma).
4. Garnish with finely sliced shallots and fresh chilli. Enjoy!

--
Tare mix & Umami Oil
INGREDIENTS
Tare Mix
● 120g Kikkoman soy sauce
● 40g Kombu Tsuyu
Umami Oil
● ½ leek
● 50g ginger
● 50g garlic
● 125ml vegetable oil
Serves: 8 Prep Time: 8 min Cooking Time: 5 min
METHOD
Tare Mix
1. Stir ingredients together, set aside.
Umami Oil
2. Finely chop the ingredients.
3. Heat the oil in a large saucepan to 160 C.
4. Add the ginger. Once ginger just starts to brown, add in the leek. When leek just
starts to colour, add the garlic. Cook until all vegetables are golden brown. Strain
and set aside to cool down.
--

Ramen Noodles
INGREDIENTS
● 240g warm water
● 380g bread flour
● 100g plain flour
● 20g tapioca flour
● 5g bi-carb soda
● 5g sea salt
Serves: 4 Prep Time: 20 min Cooking Time: 2 min
METHOD
1. Mix all the dry ingredients together. Pour the warm water in, and start kneading.
2. Once all the ingredients are well combined and form a ball (it should be firm and
slightly sticky), place the dough in a plastic bag, and start kneading the dough
with your feet for about one minute.
3. Take the dough out of the bag, fold it in 3 (book fold), and place it back in the
back. Repeat the process 4 times in total.
4. Let the dough rest for half an hour.
5. Roll the dough into sheets of about 1 mm, and cut into noodles.
6. Dust noodles with tapioca flour to prevent them from sticking together.
7. Cook in batches in boiling water for 30 seconds.
--
Nitamago (Infused Egg)
INGREDIENTS
● 2 eggs
● 30g Kikkoman soy
● 20g mirin
● 3.5g sake
● 3.5g sugar
Serves: 2 Prep Time: 3 min Cooking Time: 7 min
METHOD
1. With the help of a spoon, make a light crack at the bottom of each egg.
2. Bring a small saucepan of water to a boil.
3. Gently add the eggs, and reduce the water to a soft boil for 7 minutes.
4. In a bowl filled with cold water, remove the egg shells.
5. In a bowl, mix the Kikkoman Soy, Mirin, Sake, and sugar, and place the eggs in.
The eggs should be fully covered. Cover the mixture with a paper towel, and let it
set for at least 15 minutes.
6. Remove the egg from the mixture, and use a fishing line to cut the eggs in half.

--

1 chicken breast
1% salt (based on the weight of the chicken)
Serves: 2 Prep Time: 5 min Cooking Time: 12 min

METHOD
1. Boil a pot of water.
2. Weigh the chicken breast and rub with 1% salt (based on the weight of the
chicken). Roll up the chicken breast tightly at least 2 times in cling wrap and tie
the ends.
3. Place the rolled chicken in boiling water until cooked through (12 minutes for
170-200g piece). 75C.
4. Remove the plastic and slice the chicken.

--

Chashu Pork for Ramen
INGREDIENTS
1kg Pork Belly
1 Kombu sheet
1 cup Mirin
1 cup Cooking Sake
1/4 cup Kombu Tsuyu
3/4 cup Soy sauce
1 piece of Ginger, sliced
1 Leek, green leafy part chopped
1 Garlic bulb
Makes: 16 slices Prep Time: 20 min Cooking Time: 14 hours
METHOD
Tie the pork belly in a roll by using some kitchen twine (your local butcher may be able to help
you with this). In a large stockpot, place the rolled pork and cover with cold water. Bring it to a
boil and simmer for 10 minutes. Remove the impurity scum from the pork. Strain the stockpot,
and rinse the pork trying to remove any residual scum on the surface.
Return the pork to a clean stockpot and add the Kombu sheet and add cold water once again just
to cover the pork. Bring it a boil and remove the Kombu sheet when it becomes soft. Reduce to a
simmer and add the mirin, cooking sake, Kombu Tsuyu and the soy sauce. Cook for an hour.
Halve the garlic in the middle so that you have the head and the tail in one respective piece. Then
add the ginger, green leafy parts of the leek and garlic to the stock and cook for another hour.
Remove the pork and place it into a large bowl. Strain the liquid base from the stockpot and use
the stock to cover the pork. Cover the bowl with cling wrap and let it refrigerate overnight or for
a minimum of 12 hours.
Remove the excess fat that may have formed on the surface of the stock. Remove the rolled pork
from the bowl and with the help of a pair of scissors, cut the twine and slice the pork into 5 mm
thick slices.
Pro Tips:
• As it takes a long time to make Chashu, you should make as much as you possibly can,
portion and freeze the excess portions. It will keep up to 2-3 months in the freezer.
• Keep the liquid stock to braise other meats or use it as an alternative to marinate the
infused eggs (see Nitamago recipe

--

Menma (Bamboo Shoots)
INGREDIENTS
● 100g bamboo shoots
● 100 ml sake
● 10 ml mirin
● 10g sugar
● 20 ml Kikkoman soy sauce
Serves: 8 Prep Time: 5 min Cooking Time: 17 min
METHOD
1. Place all ingredients into a saucepan
2. Cook on medium heat until there is no more liquid left.
3. Set aside, until ready to use (store in the fridge for up to 5 days).

--